CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Keyboard Playground

## Development Setup

### 1. Install Flutter

Follow the official Flutter installation guide: https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install

Verify installation:
```bash
flutter doctor
```

### 2. Clone and Setup

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd keyboard-playground
flutter pub get
```

### 3. IDE Setup (Recommended)

**VS Code**:
- Install Flutter extension
- Install Dart extension
- Settings are pre-configured in `.vscode/`

**Android Studio / IntelliJ**:
- Install Flutter plugin
- Install Dart plugin

### 4. Verify Setup

```bash
flutter analyze  # Should show no issues
flutter test     # Should pass all tests
flutter run -d linux  # Should run the app
```

## Development Workflow

### Before You Start

1. Check [DEPENDENCIES.md](DEPENDENCIES.md) for available PRDs
2. Read [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md) for coordination guidelines
3. Create a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/prd-XXX-description`

### During Development

1. Write tests first (TDD encouraged)
2. Run `flutter analyze` frequently
3. Format code: `dart format .`
4. Commit often with clear messages

### Before Submitting PR

```bash
# Run all checks
flutter analyze
flutter test --coverage
dart format --set-exit-if-changed .

# Commit
git add .
git commit -m "feat(prd-XXX): Description"
git push -u origin feature/prd-XXX-description
```

## Continuous Integration

Our CI pipeline runs on every push and PR:

- **Lint & Format**: Ensures code follows style guidelines
- **Tests**: Runs all unit and widget tests
- **Builds**: Verifies app builds on all platforms

### Running CI Checks Locally

```bash
make ci  # Runs format-check, analyze, and test
```

Individual commands:
```bash
make format-check  # Check formatting
make analyze       # Run static analysis
make test          # Run all tests
make coverage      # Generate coverage report
```

### CI Workflow Files

- `.github/workflows/ci.yml`: Main CI pipeline
- `.github/workflows/pr-checks.yml`: PR-specific checks

### Build Matrix

| Job | Platform | Trigger |
|-----|----------|---------|
| analyze | Ubuntu | Every push |
| test | Ubuntu | Every push |
| build-macos | macOS | Every push |
| build-linux | Ubuntu | Every push |
| build-windows | Windows | Main branch or labeled PR |

### Quality Gates

All PRs must pass:
- Dart format check
- Static analysis (no warnings or errors)
- All tests (>90% coverage required)
- Platform builds (macOS, Linux)

## Code Style

- Follow [Effective Dart](https://dart.dev/guides/language/effective-dart)
- Use `dart format` (no custom formatting)
- All public APIs must have documentation comments
- Prefer `const` constructors where possible

## Testing

- Unit tests for business logic
- Widget tests for UI components
- Integration tests for end-to-end flows
- Maintain >90% coverage

## Commit Messages

Format: `type(scope): subject`

**Types**:
- `feat`: New feature
- `fix`: Bug fix
- `docs`: Documentation only
- `test`: Adding/updating tests
- `refactor`: Code refactoring
- `chore`: Build tasks, dependencies

**Examples**:
- `feat(prd-004): Implement macOS keyboard capture`
- `fix(input): Handle key repeat edge case`
- `docs(readme): Update setup instructions`

## Questions?

- Check [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md) for detailed guidance
- Review existing PRDs in [docs/prds/](docs/prds/)
- Read architecture docs in [docs/architecture/](docs/architecture/)

Commit message:

fix(ci): Address Copilot code review suggestions from PR #4
Resolved multiple Copilot code review comments:

1. Upgraded actions/upload-artifact from v3 to v4 (3 instances)
   - Updated macOS, Linux, and Windows build artifact uploads

2. Upgraded codecov/codecov-action from v3 to v4
   - Added CODECOV_TOKEN requirement for v4

3. Fixed invalid regex pattern in pr-checks.yml
   - Changed 'prd-\d+' to 'prd-*' (glob pattern for action compatibility)

4. Added Windows support to Makefile coverage target
   - Included cmd.exe /c start for opening coverage reports on Windows

5. Added genhtml availability check in Makefile
   - Validates lcov/genhtml is installed before generating coverage HTML
   - Provides helpful installation instructions for each platform

6. Added coverage threshold documentation in ci.yml
   - Clarified 10% is starting threshold for initial development
   - Noted it will increase as codebase matures

7. Clarified coverage requirements in CONTRIBUTING.md
   - Updated both Quality Gates and Testing sections
   - Explained gap between 10% CI minimum and 90% long-term goal
   - Added context for gradual enforcement increase

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Keyboard Playground

## Development Setup

### 1. Install Flutter

Follow the official Flutter installation guide: https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/install

Verify installation:
```bash
flutter doctor
```

### 2. Clone and Setup

```bash
git clone <repository-url>
cd keyboard-playground
flutter pub get
```

### 3. IDE Setup (Recommended)

**VS Code**:
- Install Flutter extension
- Install Dart extension
- Settings are pre-configured in `.vscode/`

**Android Studio / IntelliJ**:
- Install Flutter plugin
- Install Dart plugin

### 4. Verify Setup

```bash
flutter analyze  # Should show no issues
flutter test     # Should pass all tests
flutter run -d linux  # Should run the app
```

## Development Workflow

### Before You Start

1. Check [DEPENDENCIES.md](DEPENDENCIES.md) for available PRDs
2. Read [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md) for coordination guidelines
3. Create a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/prd-XXX-description`

### During Development

1. Write tests first (TDD encouraged)
2. Run `flutter analyze` frequently
3. Format code: `dart format .`
4. Commit often with clear messages

### Before Submitting PR

```bash
# Run all checks
flutter analyze
flutter test --coverage
dart format --set-exit-if-changed .

# Commit
git add .
git commit -m "feat(prd-XXX): Description"
git push -u origin feature/prd-XXX-description
```

## Continuous Integration

Our CI pipeline runs on every push and PR:

- **Lint & Format**: Ensures code follows style guidelines
- **Tests**: Runs all unit and widget tests
- **Builds**: Verifies app builds on all platforms

### Running CI Checks Locally

```bash
make ci  # Runs format-check, analyze, and test
```

Individual commands:
```bash
make format-check  # Check formatting
make analyze       # Run static analysis
make test          # Run all tests
make coverage      # Generate coverage report
```

### CI Workflow Files

- `.github/workflows/ci.yml`: Main CI pipeline
- `.github/workflows/pr-checks.yml`: PR-specific checks

### Build Matrix

| Job | Platform | Trigger |
|-----|----------|---------|
| analyze | Ubuntu | Every push |
| test | Ubuntu | Every push |
| build-macos | macOS | Every push |
| build-linux | Ubuntu | Every push |
| build-windows | Windows | Main branch or labeled PR |

### Quality Gates

All PRs must pass:
- Dart format check
- Static analysis (no warnings or errors)
- All tests (10% minimum coverage; goal is >90% as codebase matures)
- Platform builds (macOS, Linux)

## Code Style

- Follow [Effective Dart](https://dart.dev/guides/language/effective-dart)
- Use `dart format` (no custom formatting)
- All public APIs must have documentation comments
- Prefer `const` constructors where possible

## Testing

- Unit tests for business logic
- Widget tests for UI components
- Integration tests for end-to-end flows
- **Coverage Goal**: Aim for >90% coverage
  - CI currently enforces 10% minimum for initial development
  - Will gradually increase as the codebase matures
  - New features should include comprehensive tests

## Commit Messages

Format: `type(scope): subject`

**Types**:
- `feat`: New feature
- `fix`: Bug fix
- `docs`: Documentation only
- `test`: Adding/updating tests
- `refactor`: Code refactoring
- `chore`: Build tasks, dependencies

**Examples**:
- `feat(prd-004): Implement macOS keyboard capture`
- `fix(input): Handle key repeat edge case`
- `docs(readme): Update setup instructions`

## Questions?

- Check [AGENTS.md](AGENTS.md) for detailed guidance
- Review existing PRDs in [docs/prds/](docs/prds/)
- Read architecture docs in [docs/architecture/](docs/architecture/)
